If you're looking to make a 360 virtual  tour using a camera like the Insta360 X5,   following the wrong workflow can waste both time  and money. Using the wrong shooting settings,   editing in the wrong software, as well as  producing low-quality images that make your   work look amateur. But never fear. In this video,  I'll show you how to achieve the best quality   possible with the X5 while wasting the least  amount of time, as well as showing you the best   free software you can use at every stage of the  editing journey. Consider this video a taste of   the value you'll find inside my full Virtual Tour  Pro course, which will teach you everything else   you need to know to create professional  virtual tours that you can charge for,   even if you're using a consumer 360 camera like  the X5. If you're curious, I'll link it below.   Let’s start with gear. And in this tutorial,  I'll be using the X5. Big thanks goes out   to Insta360 for sponsoring this video. If  you haven't picked yourself up an X5 yet,   I will link it below, and it may even come with  a freebie or two. The only other thing you need,   really, aside from the camera, is a monopod  of some sort. Here I'm using a combination of   two different things because I was travelling. I  wanted to pack light. So, I've used a selfie stick   from the Best 360 Monopod, and I've combined that  with the Insta360 all-purpose tripod. And since   all accessories usually have a 1/4-inch tripod  thread, either male or female, most things are   going to be compatible with most other things. However, if you are looking to invest,   I'd recommend something like the Bushman Monopod  Pro on the higher end, or the Best 360 Monopod on   the lower end. Whatever you get, you'll just want  to make sure that the camera extends to eye level,   which is the most natural height to view it from. But before we get started shooting, first it's   really important to make your space presentable.  So hopefully the location you're shooting is   already somewhat neat, but you will want to do a  once-over of the rooms you shoot just to make sure   everything is neat and tidy, including fluffing  up pillows, getting rid of garbage bins, and   anything else that is cluttering the room. You’ll  also want to open all doors within the location   so it's easy to navigate from room to room later  through having a clear visual line of sight. Also,   if you've got windows with curtains, you will want  to open them as far as possible to let as much   natural light into the room as you can. This will  help the camera expose the inside of the room far   better. Another thing that helps a lot is turning  on the internal lights of the room. Even if it is   during the day, it will make a difference. Next, it's time to turn the camera on and   set our settings. The first thing you want to do  after navigating to photo mode is bringing up the   resolution screen and just double-checking  that you have it set to 72 megapixels,   as well as setting the self-timer, which  will give you a few seconds to go and hide   once you've pressed the shutter button.  For that, I'd recommend five seconds.   Now, the number one challenge when shooting 360  photos at an interior location is trying to expose   the outside and the light coming in through the  windows, since at most locations it's going to   be far brighter outside than it is inside. And  this produces exposure challenges where you have   two very different types of lighting that you're  trying to capture in the same shot. And for this   reason, it's important not to leave the X5  on the standard photo mode. So, up the top   here you'll see there's an HDR photo option, and  here you can set it to either HDR photo on or AEB,   which refers to auto-exposure bracketing. Now, many people will make the case for   shooting in bracketing because this is how many  traditional real estate photographers capture high   dynamic range scenes. However, with the X5 it's a  different story. Here's what the two options look   like side by side. And at first, you'll notice  that the bracketing shot has more contrast and   may seem sharper at first, but it also comes  with introducing a lot more noise and visual   imperfections into the image. If you look at the  handles of the HDR shot versus the handles with   a bracketing shot, they are easily sharper on  the left-hand side. Also, all surfaces on the   left-hand side are smoother than the right. And  this is because bracketing combines several photos   together into one shot. And with that, the quality  around the high-contrast areas deteriorates,   making straight lines less straight. And while the in-built HDR is pretty aggressive   with the noise reduction, it still looks better,  in my opinion, than the bracketing. Bracketing   also struggles a lot more with textures. Like  here on this bedhead, it has a really bad case of   coloured moiré, and that's going to be practically  unfixable. Also, bracketing takes a lot longer to   shoot. Here on set, I did a side by side, and my  HDR photo was taken in just seconds, whereas the   bracketing took a whole minute for just one  single photo. And that time is really going   to add up, especially with bigger locations. So, for best image quality and fastest shooting   workflow, I'd recommend turning HDR on. Then  you'll also want to turn PureShot Plus RAW on,   which will create a backup RAW file that  you can use in case of emergency where you   may have messed up your exposure somehow, and  will be much easier for you to fix overblown   highlights and crushed shadows. However,  most of the time it shouldn't come to that.   Now, in regards to how many shots you should take  per room, the simple answer I'm going to give you   is one. Assuming you're shooting an interior like  a hotel, a house, a business, something with an   average-sized room. Don't forget the goal is not  to create a Google Street View-type experience,   but to just take one money shot per room. That is  unless the room is substantially big enough that a   second photo justifies a very different change  in perspective, and therefore another photo.   So, in this big open room here, I do have  two distinct areas. Over there I've got the   living room, and on this side there's a dining  and kitchen area. So therefore, I think two   photos is justified. However, for other rooms,  like bedrooms, this is a much smaller room,   and there's really only one perspective I can take  here, and that's here in front of the bed. So,   I don't need a second photo. Same  with bathrooms, hallways, and so on.   Just remember, though, you've got to have a line  of sight to your previous photo. So, if I'm taking   one out here, I've got a clear line of sight  to this photo here that I'm going to take in   this spot. So therefore, when I piece this virtual  tour together, the navigation is going to be easy.   It will look like this. And vice versa. Same with  here. So, I can obviously see the next point that   I'll navigate to in the tour. So when people click  on the little hotspot over here, it will go like   this, and there'll be nothing blocking the way. Now, in terms of where you place your monopod,   chances are you're going to be looking at a floor  like this with a tile or a carpet with a pattern.   And this can be problematic, especially if you're  planning on removing your tripod later in editing.   So, if you're able to, I'd recommend placing the  monopod and tripod right in the middle of a tile   as opposed to covering the lines, because  this is going to cause obvious stitching   errors and be a nightmare to edit out, whereas  this is going to be so much easier to work with.   Also, as it goes with most 360 cameras, the  sides of the camera have the least sharpness. So,   I'd recommend pointing them towards any part  of your scene that isn't that important,   like an empty wall or maybe a window  frame, so the front of the lens has a full,   clear view of the more important details that  you actually want to capture in both directions.   All right, camera's set up and ready to go.  My self-timer is on, so it's time to shoot.   My plan is to run and hide behind the corner  there. And I've given myself five seconds   to do that. So, let's do it. There we go. Okay, I think we're good. And yes, we are.   Now I can move to the next point, which is going  to be at least six feet in this direction. Let's   move the monopod. And I'm going to put this as  central as I can in this little lounge room area,   so it really does have a highlight of  different things and a substantially   different viewpoint to what we just saw. Before I press the button, though,   one thing I want to point out is that you always  need to look out for reflections. Even if you   don't have an obvious mirror, there are windows,  there are TVs, and these are reflective. And   as you can see, I can actually see the camera  and monopod right there in the TV reflection.   So that could be an issue. So therefore, that's  going to influence exactly where I place this   monopod. So perhaps I need to move it just a  little bit back so it minimises that reflection.   Now, there are going to be some situations  where this is unavoidable, like in bathrooms   with lots of mirrors and there's just  nowhere to hide. If that's the case,   then yeah, we absolutely can fix this in  editing, which I'll show you in a bit.   However, rule of thumb is that if you can fix it  while you're here on location, you should, because   it's going to save you editing time, and this  can add up if you've got a lot of photos to fix.   Now, my final shooting tip is that before  you leave your location, to review a couple   of your photos just to make sure you didn't  mess anything up. You can do this either on   the camera body itself or your phone. And you'll  just want to take a look at the shots in 360 just   to make sure you didn't mess up the exposure or  there isn't anything in shot you didn't intend,   because this is your chance to fix it if you  did. You're not going to have a second chance,   especially if you've got a location for a limited  time. So, always do this before you leave.   All right, that's a wrap. Well done. Now it's time  for us to edit our shots using a variety of free   programs. The first one you want to use, which  you probably already own, is Insta360 Studio.   Here I've got my first shot, and that looks  great. The exposure is really good, and I'm happy   with the composition. And simply by importing  these shots here on the left-hand side, the   stitching process is now complete. That was easy. Now, you'll notice here on the left-hand side that   we've got two versions of each photo, and that  is because one is a JPEG and one is a RAW shot,   aka a DNG. However, we're going to stick with  the JPEGs here since I'm happy with how these   turned out and I don't need to use the DNG. So, the next step I'd recommend you do, and it's   potentially one that can be done here on Insta360  Studio, is colour correction. So, by clicking   Media Processing here up the top right, this will  open up a colour correction menu. And if you want   to keep things as simple as possible without using  an external colour correction software, then you   really can do it here and get decent results. Now, ultimately it's going to depend what your   shot looks like as to which sliders you use. But  with virtual tours, I always like to drag the   highlights slider down because that generally  represents the window area, and it will just   help get the brightest highlights under control.  As you can see, it's not a massive difference,   but it is noticeable. Next, I'm going to increase  the contrast just a little bit to make the scene   pop a bit more. And finally, I'm going to boost  the vibrance, which will selectively increase the   colour saturation of colours that aren't already  highly saturated. And I'm pretty happy with that.   Here's the before. Here's the after. It's not a  massive difference, but thankfully the camera did   a pretty good job to start with. Therefore,  not a lot of colour correction was needed.   However, in other scene types, like this bathroom  here, you may need to do more extreme colour   correction, since this is feeling a bit flat.  So I'd probably go a little bit higher with the   contrast and make other changes that are specific  to this room. So, use your gut instinct here. And   if you don't want to do any colour correction  at all, that's also okay, because generally I've   found that the images straight out of the camera  are good enough, especially if you're just doing   it as a personal project. There's no need to  spend that extra time if you don't want to.   Now, one thing that I want to point out with  colour correction is that if you've got, say,   a really big room and you've taken lots of shots  in it, and you know that you're going to be colour   correcting all of those shots in the exact same  way, well, if these are your colour correction   adjustments, what you want to do is head down  to batch settings. By default, it will select   everything here. It's basically saying that all of  these will apply to this batch. Then, if you click   next, you can now navigate to your other shots and  select the others and then apply in batches. Now,   when I navigate to the other shot, you'll  see that the exact same colour adjustments   were applied. Definitely a time-saver. Once all of your edits have been made here   in Insta360 Studio, next we're going to export  them. And instead of doing it one by one here   on the left-hand side, if you select the first one  that you want to export and then on your keyboard   hold down Command or Control and then select the  next one, as well as all the others you want to   export. Now we're going to head up to Export. But  don't make this mistake of leaving it on Export   Reframe Photo, because this refers to only the  window you see here, which is the reframe version   of the 360 photo. Instead, we're going to choose  Export 360 Photo at Original Resolution. And you   want to keep Automatic Horizon Leveling on. Choose  your save location and then hit Start Export.   Now, one cool thing that I want to point out that  is a feature of Insta360 Studio is if we look   down, you can see the tripod. And obviously that  doesn't look great. But here, if you click this   stamp icon here, you can add a custom nadir, which  essentially means that you can replace the bottom   circle of the image with another static image.  And here you'll find some Insta360 watermarks.   But if you scroll down, you'll find an Add  Custom option. And here you can import your   own logo to show up at the bottom. So here I've  created this logo as a circular PNG in Canva.   I'm going to click OK. And now I can increase or  decrease the size, but the goal essentially is to   cover this tripod enough. And that has done it.  You can also rotate it if you like. And look at   that — our tripod is now covered with a logo. This won't be for everyone. Not every client   you work for is going to be okay with having  a logo in shot, especially yours. So I'd only   recommend doing this with personal projects.  However, this is not the only way to get rid   of the tripod. The other way is using the free  Affinity software, which I'll link below, which   was formerly a paid photo editor that was a great  alternative to Photoshop that had 360 editing   capabilities. And then Canva bought it and made it  completely free for anyone to download and use.   So, I've just dragged and dropped one of my photos  here into Affinity. And as you can see, this is   the equirectangular view, aka the non-360 view. To  convert this to 360 so we can remove that tripod,   you want to choose Pixel, then Live Projection,  Equirectangular. And now we can scroll around   this image as an interactive 360 photo. And I'm  honing in now on this tripod. But first, I want to   get in nice and close. So I'm going to adjust my  field of view so it's as zoomed in as it can get.   Next, on the left-hand side right here is an  option called the Inpainting Brush Tool. If   you click that, this is going to be our magic  paintbrush that eliminates the tripod. So if   you carefully paint over it and try not to  spill too far into the rest of the image.   That looks pretty good. And now, as soon as  I let my mouse go, in just seconds Affinity   removes the tripod. And that's done a great job.  It's matched the pattern of the carpet, and I   don't even need to do another single stroke. Now, you can get rid of other things in your   image, obviously, like this dot on the floor. If  you've got any messy surfaces, you can clean them   up. And if you want to look around your image  again, just go Pixel, Live Projection, then   Remove. This returns us to the equirectangular  view. And you probably remember from before we had   that monopod reflection on the TV. So I'm going to  repeat the exact same process as before. This time   I'm going to point the viewpoint at the TV. I'll  zoom right in, Inpainting Brush Tool, and I'm just   going to paint over this line, and it's gone. Now, that was totally not necessary, by the way.   I think I did a pretty good job hiding it to  begin with. But if you are in a room with a   big mirror that makes it unavoidable to see  the camera reflection, this tool is going to   be so valuable. Just make sure that once you're  done editing, you go out the same way you came   in through Pixel, Live Projection, Remove. And  this returns us to the equirectangular view.   Now, Affinity is also a colour correction  software. So if you did want to do some   more advanced colour correction, you can  absolutely do it here. However, to keep things   simple in this video, I'm going to leave it. Now, all we need to do is export our image.   And to do that, head up to the top and go File,  then down to Export. Export. You'll choose JPEG,   Best Quality, and don't touch  anything else. And now export.   By the way, I teach hundreds more editing tips  exactly like these inside my Virtual Tour Pro   course, which dives deep on all of the best  photo editing techniques for high-quality shots,   even if they weren't high-quality  when you shot them, as well as how   to use the leading virtual tour software  platforms to build and publish your tours.   You can learn more by following the link below. Now, speaking of virtual tour software, the number   one platform I recommend if you're a beginner  and you just want to start with something free is   called Panoee, which I will also link below. And  inside this software, you can do everything you   need to do from start to finish without paying  for any type of subscription. While I do have   paid tiers here, these are optional, and you can  still build an entire virtual tour completely for   free using most features of the software. Anyway, once you've made yourself a Panoee   account, you'll be directed to your home  dashboard, which will look something like   this. And we're going to select New Project at the  top right. We're going to give our tour a name, a   brief description, and a category. And let's go. From here, the process is really simple. You just   upload your 360 images, then click the ones you  want to import and choose Submit. And now it's   a pretty straightforward process to build the  virtual tour. To connect two shots together,   you can just click on the left-hand  side and drag one into the middle   window. And that will automatically create  a hotspot that navigates to this shot here,   which you can rename, change the hotspot style,  move it around so it's perfectly positioned,   and rinse and repeat with your other photos. If you want to learn my entire workflow inside   Panoee, inside this video here I'll show you  everything you need to do from start to finish,   so you can import your Insta360 X5 shots and  have a finished virtual tour in under 30 minutes.